flexo(1) -- Image spriting for web applications
===============================================

SYNOPSIS
--------

`flexo` [--no-colour] COMMAND [ARGUMENTS]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`Flexo` is a tool for creating sprite images which combine many smaller
sources into a single larger image. Spriting allows you to reduce the
number of HTTP requests required to load a web page, and as such can
result in reduced load times.

Flexo also creates the necessary CSS to position the sprite within an
HTML element so that only the desired source appears. Those writing
their website or application in Ruby can make use of Flexo's Sass
builder which creates a Sass mixin, further simplifying the use of your
sprites.

In order to reduce the amount of data transferred to clients loading
your pages, Flexo optimises the sprites it generates using PNGOUT,
OptiPNG, and PNGCrush.

OPTIONS
-------

* `--no-colour`:
  Disables the use of colour in output. This option is also available as
  `--no-color`.

COMMANDS
--------

* [flexo init(1)][flexo-init(1)]:
  Creates a new Flexo project in the current directory.

* [flexo generate(1)][flexo-generate(1)]:
  Creates the sprites specified by your `.flexo` or `flexo.rb` file,
  optimises the images, and creates any requested CSS or Sass files.

* [flexo optimise(1)][flexo-optimise(1)]:
  Given paths to PNG files as arguments, optimises them to reduce the
  filesize as much as possible without compromising quality. Also
  available as `flexo optimize`.

* [flexo position(1)][flexo-position(1)]:
  Shows the position of a source within a sprite, and provides CSS which
  you can use in your own stylesheets.

* [flexo describe(1)][flexo-describe(1)]:
  Shows a human-readable summary of the sprites and settings defined in
  `.flexo`.

Detailed documentation for each of Flexo's commands can be viewed with
the `flexo help` command. For example, to view the documentation for the
`generate` command, run `flexo help generate`.

SEE ALSO
--------

flexo(5) (`flexo help .flexo`) provides a description of the `.flexo`
configuration file format.
