flexo-generate(1) -- Create sprite images defined in your .flexo file
=====================================================================

SYNOPSIS
--------

`flexo generate` [--force] [--fast] [--config=FLEXO\_CONFIG]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Generate the sprites defined in your flexo(5) file. After each sprite is
generated, the sprites are optimised using whichever available PNG
optimisers you have installed (PNGOUT, OptiPNG, and PNGCrush) in order
to reduce the filesize as much as possible.

Sass and CSS is then generated according to the settings defined in your
flexo(5) configuration.

Flexo keeps track of the contents of each sprite with a `.flexo-cache`
file so that subsequent runs of `flexo generate` will only re-generate
(and re-optimise) those sprites whose sources have changed. See the
_FLEXO CACHE_ section -- below -- for more information.

OPTIONS
-------

* `--force`:
  Something something something dark side: re-generate sprites even if
  the sources have not changed since last time.

* `--fast`:
  Skips optimisation of generated sprites. Useful when you want to
  quickly preview changes without waiting for the optimisers to run.

* `--config=<path>`:
  In order to perform some tasks -- such as generating sprites -- Flexo
  needs to locate your `.flexo` project file. The default behaviour is
  to look for one in the current working directory, and to keep
  ascending the directory structure until it finds one.

  To disable this behaviour, you may supply a path to the config file by
  using the `--config` option.

FLEXO CACHE
-----------

Since optimising sprites can be a lengthy process (very large sprites
may take minutes), Flexo keeps track of the contents of each sprite with
a `.flexo-cache` file.

Flexo will re-generate an existing sprite in the following cases:

  1. the contents of a source file is changed; or,
  2. a new source file is added, or an existing one deleted; or,
  3. the generated sprite file is missing; or,
  4. you pass the `--force` option.

SEE ALSO
--------

flexo(5)
