polymer-generate(1) -- Create sprite images defined in your .polymer file
=========================================================================

SYNOPSIS
--------

`polymer generate` [--force] [--fast] [--config=POLYMER\_CONFIG]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

Generate the sprites defined in your polymer(5) file. After each sprite is
generated, the sprites are optimised using whichever available PNG
optimisers you have installed (PNGOUT, OptiPNG, and PNGCrush) in order
to reduce the filesize as much as possible.

Sass and CSS is then generated according to the settings defined in your
polymer(5) configuration.

Polymer keeps track of the contents of each sprite with a
`.polymer-cache` file so that subsequent runs of `polymer generate` will
only re-generate (and re-optimise) those sprites whose sources have
changed. See the _POLYMER CACHE_ section -- below -- for more
information.

OPTIONS
-------

* `--force`:
  Something something something dark side: re-generate sprites even if
  the sources have not changed since last time.

* `--fast`:
  Skips optimisation of generated sprites. Useful when you want to
  quickly preview changes without waiting for the optimisers to run.

* `--config=<path>`:
  In order to perform some tasks -- such as generating sprites -- Polymer
  needs to locate your `.polymer` project file. The default behaviour is
  to look for one in the current working directory, and to keep
  ascending the directory structure until it finds one.

  To disable this behaviour, you may supply a path to the config file by
  using the `--config` option.

POLYMER CACHE
-------------

Since optimising sprites can be a lengthy process (very large sprites
may take minutes), Polymer keeps track of the contents of each sprite
with a `.polymer-cache` file.

Polymer will re-generate an existing sprite in the following cases:

  1. the contents of a source file is changed; or,
  2. a new source file is added, or an existing one deleted; or,
  3. the generated sprite file is missing; or,
  4. you pass the `--force` option.

SEE ALSO
--------

polymer(5)
